# Final Grant Proposal

## Table of Contents
	List of Participants
	Abstract
	Narrative
		Enhancing the Humanities
		Environmental Scan
		History of Project
		Work Plan
		Final Product and Dissemination 
		
## List of Participants
Emeline Blevins – University of Richmond

Annie Irvin – Beauregard-Keyes House

Laurent Tilton – University of Richmond 

Tulane Research Library

University of Vermont Library

## Abstract
	The corpus of texts left by author Frances Parkinson Keyes spans almost three quarters of the 20th Century, and the possibilities for exploration and analysis are endless. In this project, rather than enter with questions and expected results, it will be entered with a mindset of discovery. While there are initial questions such as what common themes in her writing appealed to the masses, who was she connected to, how did her world travels influence her writing and her audience, it is only after the data is compiled and initially looked at can a research question be formed, given Keyes’s extensive amount of work left behind in the forms of magazines, books, and letters, both written and edited by Keyes, ranging from the early 1900s all the way through 1970. Through a combination of techniques with their respective programs such as networks, mapping – both geographic and spatial, and text mining her works ban be looked at through a new light. By being able to compare and analyze her works side by side new things can be discovered about Keyes, her writings, her readership, and the time that she was living and writing in.
	
##Narrative

### Enhancing the Humanities
	Frances Keyes’s immense corpus leaves a lot to be uncovered. While an immense task, analyzing her work will provide great inside to the author herself, her audience, and the times she was writing in. This project is one of discovery and exploration with no set research question to be answered, given the tendency to fit data into a certain mold in order to answer those questions. Instead, through a number of methods, information will be gathered, analyzed, and presented for scholars, students, and those interested to look at and draw their own conclusions or use the data for their own projects. 
	While the human experience is vast and individual, Keyes was able to reach and connect to people across the globe through her writings. There is some common experience or thread, perhaps even multiple threads that Keyes was able to touch upon in her work – making her one of the most popular woman writers in her time. Within Keyes’s work and life, there are a number of avenues that can be explored, such as her relationships with people across the globe, her time writing for various magazines, her novels, as well as the places she traveled to for her work.
	Friendships, especially the friendships between women has become a popular area of study in recent years. How women became acquainted, how they created a connection and maintained these friendships through letters is a new area for social and gender historians to explore. Typically, when one discusses transcontinental correspondence, it is between the “great men” and their ideas, and it results in projects like the [Republic of Letters](http://republicofletters.stanford.edu/) or [Hugo Grotius](http://grotius.huygens.knaw.nl/years). Keyes was an extremely popular woman, friends with notable figures like First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt, activist Dorothy Canfield, actress Mary Pickford, as well as prominent women in society who headed magazines and organizations, the wives of politicians in the United States and abroad. Tracing her friendships with these women can provide insight into the personal lives and histories of women who are, with the exception of Eleanor Roosevelt, generally glossed over. In addition to her female friends, Keyes was also friends with a number of notable men such as Franklin D. Roosevelt, Italian dictator Benito Mussolini, the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, the former Kaiser Wilhelm, King Alfonso of Spain, as well as a number of other ambassadors, presidents, and leaders. In a time that the United States was dominating the world stage with its diplomacy and policies, Keyes was in contact with both sides of the conflict in her own, non-political way. Visualizing these connections would be a fascinating starting point to explore the relationships between women, men, politicians, and the U.S. and abroad. 
	Another important part of Keyes’s life was her time spent writing for magazines like *Good Housekeeping*, *Atlantic Monthly*, the *Delineator*, among others. Her popularity writing articles eventually led to book deals and the appointment of editor of the *National Historical Magazine*. Magazines, in particular women’s magazines, played a large role in bringing women together in the early 20th century, creating what scholar Benedict Anderson coined as an “imagined community.” Although many of the women who read these magazines would never meet or come in contact with each other, through their subscriptions they shared common beliefs, ideals, and interests. Keyes, as a popular writer and eventual editor of women’s magazines, played a key role in this “imagined community.” Her first series for *Good Housekeeping*, “Letters from a Senator’s Wife,” were written as if she was writing to a friend, updating them on the gossip and goings-on in Washington D.C. She would later go on to travel the globe for *Good Housekeeping*, writing an article from each place she visited, telling her readers about the local culture and the sights she saw. Given her popularity and the long time she spent writing for magazines, there was something about what and how she wrote that appealed to a number of people. And by digitizing, cleaning up, and exploring Keyes’s time with magazines, this and a number of other things can be uncovered. Analysis of her writings can find common trends, the places she went to can be mapped, make networks of people who are mentioned in articles, or even creating an interactive reading of her articles that provides more context and information to better understand them. What these things can accomplish is to break down her writings and make them accessible to a larger audience who can use them for their own research. Given the variety of topics she covers, an analysis of the magazine articles would appeal to a people across academic disciplines. 
	The largest and least studied part of Keyes’s life is the fifty novels she wrote over the course of her career. Although discouraged by both her mother and her husband from pursuing writing, her first novel was published after WWI, and after she took a break from magazines, she began to write almost one novel a year. Her subjects were typically women who fall in love but are faced with an obstacle of some sort, either distance, money, or a love triangle. Her most famous novels, known as the Louisiana novels, were *Crescent Carnival* and *Dinner at Antoine’s*. The former a tale of a family at Mardi Gras for several generations and the latter a murder mystery that took place at Antoine’s Restaurant in New Orleans. Keyes’s prose tended to be overly descriptive and flowy, using commas and dashes as much as possible in her writing. The end result is novels that are immense in length, tending to be over four hundred pages at minimum. Regardless of modern opinions on her work, during her time Keyes was one of the most popular women novelists in the United States and across the globe. Her books were translated into nearly every major language, and she often made the best seller list. 
Like with Keyes’s magazine articles, digitization, cleaning, and analysis of her novels would give those interesting in her work a starting point for research, or a better way to understand her novels. Did her style of writing have similarities with other authors, what was it about her subject matter that appealed to so many people? Graphing the popularity of her books in relation to each other and to other novels published at the same time would be an interesting starting point and point of comparison. The rest of the data however would be presented and left up to interpretation by those who read it. Because nobody has ever done a thorough analysis of her work, there are no arguments to be made or conclusions to be drawn at this time. One of the possibilities with this is mapping her novels, both spatially and geographically. How did her characters see the space they were in, who and what is closer and more important to the story. Geographically, many of her novels have multiple locations, and seeing what took place where both in relation to period maps and contemporary maps would give those interested a better conceptualization of the space Keyes was working in. Another way to analyze the data would be to topic model her novels, seeing if there were trends in her style of writing that made some books more popular than others, and possibly look at what made her novels so appealing on a massive scale.  

### Environmental Scan
		There are a number of tools that can be used for this project, given its wide scope. One of the first steps would be to digitize Keyes’s letters, articles, and novels. Then the text would need to be cleaned up so that it can be easily read by the computer. The digitized texts would be annotated, and potentially cross referenced so that the text is placed within context of the times it was written. Tracking popularity of novels across time in regards to sales is based on Franco Moretti’s work in *Graphs, Maps, and Trees*. In regards to understanding the text, both magazines and novels, Mallet would be the best tool for a basic analysis. That way, the texts can be deciphered and easily presented for the audience. Another tool for text analysis would be [Voyant](https://voyant-tools.org/), which could create word clouds and track the frequency of words in texts. With both Mallet and Voyant, trends can also be tracked across time, which would prove useful for studying Keyes’s writing from the beginning to the end of her career. In regards to mapping, ArcMap is a great tool for overlaying historic maps across contemporary ones, and plotting locations such as where Keyes was writing from for her magazine articles, where her novels took place, where she was traveling, or where she was sending letters to. Similar projects, mentioned previously, include the [Republic of Letters](http://republicofletters.stanford.edu/) and that of [Hugo Grotius](http://grotius.huygens.knaw.nl/years), and in each map there can be links to the items being mapped. The mapping required for the spatial maps, as discussed in *Graphs, Maps, and Trees*, would be more complex, and relies on clear results from the text analysis. The networks between Keyes and her various correspondents can be done with the program Gephi. In addition to networking the connections, digitized letters can be accessed from each node. This would allow a researcher to better understand the nature of relationship between Keyes and those she corresponded with. 

### History of Project
	The preliminary research for this project began several years ago with the compilation of Keyes’s *Good Housekeeping* articles on behalf of the Beauregard-Keyes House. Other research related to the project involved extensive research on women’s magazines in the 19th and 20th century, and the role they played in popular culture. Another aspect of this was research done on Keyes’s time in Washington and some of the figures mentioned in her articles. There was also a fair amount of research done on her series of articles from Latin America, where they were written, the context behind them, the figures mentioned, and the socio-political implications of Keyes’s writing on larger U.S.-Latin American relations. From this developed a project that analyzed Keyes’s role with the Daughters of the American Revolution and their magazine, National Historical Magazine. While there has been some work analyzing her time as editor of the *National Historical Magazine*, there is none of the writing she actually did for the magazine, which this project would entail. These were done in part with funding and technological support from the University of Richmond. 

### Work Plan
	There are a number of tasks to be accomplished during the course of this project. The primary task will be to digitize her magazine articles, novels, and letters. This task is made easier by some of her letters and all of her *Good Housekeeping* Articles already being digitized. An issue however, would be locating magazines that have gone out of print or have no accessible archives, like the *Delineator*. The same issue applies to her letters, but there are a number of archives and libraries that have originals or copies of letters that can be obtained. After this is done, the texts need to be cleaned up and able to be read by a computer. The primary issue with this is the amount of time this part will take given the large body of work left behind, but if with proper scheduling, it would be no issue. In order to mitigate these issues would be proper time allotment, as well as potentially enlisting other persons to help with cleaning up the texts. 
	Running the text through various programs would be the next step, which would take less time than the digitization and cleaning, and should be accomplished relatively quickly in comparison to the cleaning of the text. After that, a website will be created and developed, and the information will be added. Both text analysis, networking, mapping, and the website creation would be done with the assistance of the University of Richmond programs such as the spatial lab and technology center. These centers can also help if any issues arise with the technology used for analysis. 
	Evaluation is most important for the final phase of the project which is analysis and presentation of the information. Evaluation can be done by a number of outside sources at the University of Richmond, the Beauregard-Keyes House, and other relevant persons and institutions that the project would appeal to. They can give direction as to what is the best way to format and present the information on the website, as well as the accessibility and ease of navigating the information.  

### Staff
	The project director for this project would be Emeline Blevins, who has knowledge with the technology necessary to complete the project, as well as the most familiarity with Keyes’s work. Because of this familiarity, she would have the largest commitment to the project. Collaborators would include those at the University of Richmond technology centers given their access and familiarity with various tools necessary to the project. Tulane Research Library would also be collaborators given their resources as well as large collection of Keyes’s writings and letters. 
	
### Final Product and Dissemination 
	This project will be put online, for free and accessible to the public. Being free is crucial to accessibility given how expensive academic journals and other online databases can be without subscriptions through acadmeic institutions, which not all persons have. Being online also helps make the information available to people who are not able to travel to institutions like Tulane or the University of Vermont, and are not able to access content. It would be linked to from sites like the Beauregard-Keyes House website, as well as Tulane’s page for Frances Keyes as well as the University of Vermont’s connection to Keyes. The site will be indexable by Google, making it easy to search for if one was researching Frances Keyes. Once the site begins to gain traction in study of Keyes, women’s magazines, and writing in the early 20th century, data from the site can be shared and further disseminated. It will contain not only an analysis of the work, but the actual text itself will be available for reading which eliminates many of the barriers that prevent people from studying Keyes's writing and letters. 
