For our project, we tried to find areas that matched our interests, specifically music and sports. For this reason, our first idea we would like to pursue is the connection between certain sports agents and successful athletes over time. Some of the questions we would want to be answered would be why certain athletes sign with certain agents, what are the factors that make the more popular agents successful, are there certain patterns that athletes or agents follow in their process of contracting with each other.

Another idea we have, also relating to sports, is researching th ehometowns of professional athletes, mainly football and basketball players. The reason we wanted to research this is because we think it could show some very interesting things as to which areas of the United States/abroad produces the most athletes than other and what are the factors that create those situations.

Our third and final idea we have for our project has to do with our other main interest, music, specifically rap/hip-hop. We are more interested in researching the lyrics of popular rappers and how they have changed from the 1980s to present day. We thought this would be really interesting because it could show how the themes of lyrics change, what impacts the themes and the things rappers talk about, and the change in the actual words and vocabulary rappers use over time as well. These are the three most interesting topics we would like to pursue and feel they could bring about some really interesting discoveries and insights.
