#Final Grant Proposal
##Table of Contents
1. [List of Participants](#list-of-participants)
2. [Abstract](#abstract) 
3. [Narrative](#narrative)
  1. [Enhancing the Humanities](#enhancing-the-humanities)
  2. Environmental Scan
  3. History of the Project
  4. Work Plan
  5. Staff
  6. Final Product and Dissemination
  
##List of Participants
* Bal Artis – University of Richmond
* Nicole Maurantonio – University of Richmond
* Victoria Charles – University of Richmond
* Lauren Tilton – University of Richmond
* Office of Admissions – University of Richmond

##Abstract
Universities across the United States are conducting projects that seek to uncover and interrogate the history of structural oppression at their respective institutions. At the University of Richmond, these aims have taken the form of the Race and Racism Project, which seeks to analyze how race related to, and continues to relate to, power and the greater university narrative. Examining how the collective memory of the university pairs with certain primary documents unarchived, the project seeks to spotlight formative moments of race relations and individuals that may be forgotten when discussing the story of the university. There are two recent addition to the project: an exhibit that focused solely on recognition and representation for students of color throughout the university’s history; and, a timeline leading up to integration at the university. This project seeks to use the groundwork laid by those facets to begin to explore how the university responded as the push for diversity became more apparent. By using the accounts of students of color, which is inclusive on national and international students, this projects seeks to create a visual component to track students of color based on where they enrolled from and how their attendance evolved over time. The final product intends on both mapping the locations of where various students of color came to the university from and where the university held outreach events, as well as visualizing these place-to-place relations through an ego-network situated over the map layers. 

##Narrative 
###Enhancing the Humanities
When discussing diversity at the university level, typically most colleges and universities offer statistics to gauge and make claims regarding their level of diversity. However, this phenomenon exists out of the reality of how these institutions were constructed historically to exclude students of color. Students of color includes both international and national students that are raced in contrast to whiteness, which is traditionally privileged in America. It is an acknowledgement of how the divisive nature of race is a product of racism, which sought to assert the self-proclaimed dominance of one group of people over another group of people. Racial demarcations were the foundation for how America was structured since the claiming of Native American land and the institution of slavery. However, there was dramatic shift in how the legacies of this ingrained oppression could play out in this country after the Civil Rights Movement of 1960s.

As universities began to integrate, some universities chose to focus on emphasizing their progress instead of addressing their history. The Civil Rights Act of 1964, which established segregation and any other form of racial discrimination illegal in public spaces, is often looked at as a revolutionary period of progress in America. While the Civil Rights Act may have paved the way for integration to occur, the structure of American society remained oriented to privilege whiteness. Students of color had to enter traditionally white-dominated spaces without much support or representation; their worth seemed quantitative rather than qualitative. Now, increasingly, American universities are crafting and conducting projects that seek to analyze history as a dynamic movement that constantly informs the present rather than a static moment with no contemporary relevance.

At the University of Richmond, there is currently a project being conducted called the [Race and Racism at the University of Richmond Project](https://memory.richmond.edu). This project expanded from a course designed by Dr. Nicole Maurantonio called Digital Memory and the Archive. The Race and Racism at the University of Richmond Project is an interdisciplinary initiative that documents, interrogates, and catalyzes community discussions on the history of race and racism at the university. Recently, a tremendous amount of research has gone into uncovering accounts related to students of color at the University of Richmond. The project exists to use the work of that exhibit as a point of departure to make the students of color throughout history that attended the university more visible.

This project operates to deploy the digital humanities as a method of examining historical oppression, specifically as it relates to the movement of students of color to the University of Richmond, a historically white-dominated space. Starting with the documents found by the Students of Color exhibit, this project would create a way to structure the data that connected each student of color in attendance with where they came from. There may be data that is missing a corresponding location, therefore considered incomplete, but those occurrences would still be recorded for study and possible revision later. Once the data is properly compiled and tidied, the first layer of the mapping process would begin. The first layer of the map would conduct a mapping process like that of the [Geography of Jobs](http://www.axismaps.com/projects/jobs/), situating points on the map based on occurrence. The points would represent students of color and the occurrence signifying their place would be their attendance at the University of Richmond. These points would be plotted over a base map that focuses on boundaries by country, with an option to center on a specific country which would then present the data over a base map sectioned by state lines. This project would also enable for certain filters to be applied to the data, to further examine certain time periods from the start of integration at the university in 1968.  
